okay cool
you're back listening to the btc lead
generation podcast or maybe this is your
first time listening in which case
welcome my name is daniel hopewell i
tend to be the co-host of the show that
sort of provides structure and keeps
things ticking along and uh my co-host
simon delaney has only jumped in with
the deeper questions and with that in
mind today's pod is entitled a deep dive
into seo and we have sam dunning from
webchoice we would say to help us trying
to reverse that journey welcome to the
show justin hey daniel hey simon thanks
for having me on guys looking forward to
it
thank you for joining us
yeah
so we'll start with a with a big
question um it's friday
what have you got today before you you
know to finish it before you can sort of
write it off the weekend and what you've
got planned this weekend
oh for friday yeah there's there's a few
bits and pieces really we've got a few
projects we're going to kick off um in
terms of there's a few websites a few
seo strategies we've got to get those
started got a few websites we've got to
kind of get the designs sorted out for
with the rest of the team get that all
squared away and then we've got the big
england game later on so um it's
actually my fiancee's old man 60th so
there's a bit of a party going on so
we'll trip off to that once we clock off
and uh maybe have a beer or two and
hopefully watch england get a win
well this is the thing until we're going
to put this live like probably next week
or something because people listen we'll
be like you know those idiots who are so
full of hope or like you know they can
listen yeah it could go very well very
badly
um okay so we'll we'll start off then um
just just very simply uh
could you sort of intro yourself sound
just so tell people what you do and um
tell us a little bit about web choice
your thing sure thing so
yeah i'm the co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and essentially at
webchoice we help businesses with custom
websites and seo strategies that
generate leads and sales
and aside from that i also run a podcast
called business growth show where each
week we put out two episodes one's with
a a guest usually a marketing specialist
or a sales specialist or entrepreneur
and we also put a solo episode and
essentially we share actionable
marketing tips that you can take away
and help with your own business to
increase your sales revenue and apart
from that i want linkedin all the time
sharing tips across websites seo and
digital marketing best practices
yeah i've listened to it a few your pods
they're great and yeah you have some
great guests on like you said it's
really actionable tips i always think
that's what people really want right
they just want to sort of stuff that can
help their business
yeah over time i mean when i first
started the podcast i think about a year
and a half i used to do kind of um guest
stories and things like that and then i
kind of thought well really want to kind
of make best use of people's time and
rather than doing an hour episode i'd
rather just do 20 to 30 minutes or so
and just that way you can whoever's
tuning in watching the video or
listening can just take away a few gold
nuggets and put those into practice like
the next day really you still do the
linkedin live uh stuff or
yeah so most the most the podcasts when
we've got guests on we'll put through
linkedin live and then we'll we'll
produce and edit up and then put out on
on youtube in the podcast a couple weeks
after the recording typically nice
so um
obviously this show we have
it's primarily to do with the lead
generation side of it and so if people
listen who are involved in that um
why should they do you think
why should they be concerned with seo
and organic ranking and stuff like that
and um you know what how can lead
generators sort of benefit from using
that more do you think
yeah sure so weirdly enough whilst i'm a
digital marketer now i actually used to
be in b2c lead gen quite a lot because i
used to deal specifically in
kind of b2c data sets and i also also
used to sell b2c um kind of real-time
web leads
so i've got a bit of a background in the
data game and dealing with kind of b2c
insurance and home products and and
those kind of goodies
so uh got a bit of background in that
but yeah in terms of getting back to
your question why should why should they
consider seo well i know
certainly my past experience a lot of
companies that want leads look into paid
ads whether that is google adwords
whether that is facebook ads whether
that is display ads or different kind of
network advertising to drive leads um so
essentially if you can get top of or get
top of the organic results on google
if you're doing google ads anyway it's
giving you two bytes at the cherry only
with this bike you're not having to pay
every time someone clicks it regardless
of whether they
turn into a customer or turn into a lead
on your landing page or your website um
and aside from that it's i mean seo's
got a bunch of advantages it builds up
brand reputation builds up confidence if
people keep seeing your brand your
company at the top spot of google and a
lot of people now are aware of what's a
paid ad and what's an organic listing
they're more educated so they know that
people have just paid for that top spot
on google whereas if they see a new
organic it i guess it bears a bit more
weight as well as driving more traffic
to your site and on the basis that your
website or landing page does a good job
at converting then it's it will drive
more leads your way
if with your history in legion you'll
know it's very transactional right so
everything's like immediate and
everyone's in a rush it's all 100 miles
an hour
um
so it's interesting the sort of
juxtaposition between seo which is like
a longer
lead time
specifically
um
so do you think that's
something that lead generators or even
brands that buying leads and stuff needs
to think about in advance when they're
putting campaigns live or is can they
sort of run it at the same time they're
you know pushing something new live or
how how would you look at it
yeah in terms of time frame it's
definitely not an instant thing that's
for sure um so if you want in results
right here right now probably not not
going to be worth it but like you said
if you are
thinking look right now we're probably
spending a bit more than we'd like to on
paid ads so if we can reduce that over
the next six months 12 months 18 months
that would be beneficial
then or if we just need a steady flow of
leads for the longer term we're not
getting craps the volume we need for our
other channels then
perhaps you want to consider seo so then
then it's perhaps time to kind of look
at what's working well on our ads and if
we're doing things like google adwords
what keywords are performing well what
are driving some great leads then let's
look at those kind of search terms from
an organic perspective is our website
giving the best content for these terms
is it highly relevant is it helpful for
people um and then shifting that into an
seo strategy but yes it's not going to
be here right now but certainly if
you've got
scope for it over the next coming months
year or so then it's it's worth looking
into
and i think i think that feeds into
something that we talk about quite a lot
which is
um
for brands uh it's less important
but i guess it isn't another way which
is a lot of lead generators they're just
seeing it as like the generation of a
lead rather than building a brand and
you feel like driving seo as well either
via a site that you build or via the
landing page it's going to start to
actually have this brand reputation
that they can um build on going forward
rather than just this really sort of
short mindset of like generating leads
let me say um
do you think it would help with that
yeah yeah exactly
because as with as many pieces of
marketing customers are fickle right so
even if they've clicked your ad it
doesn't mean and even if they've liked
your offer it doesn't mean that they're
gonna
fill out your inquiry form request a
demo or whatever the b2c kind of next
step is fill out some kind of form or
come in as a lead just because they've
done it right there and then they might
do go on to your site flick off
forget about it see an ad another day
then do it on that time or in seo's case
they might see you at the top of google
organically and then think great look
have a look around your site or your
landing page then a few days later maybe
see a social ad maybe a reminder of you
and then go on that next journey so it's
it's very much uh
the buying process or the lead gen
process is very fickle and and as you
guys probably know it can't always be
attributed to a certain channel um so
having that brand positioning being
constantly there when people are
searching for you is is going to add up
because people don't always know why
they've done things but you're in their
mind so when the time comes and they
need your product then they're probably
gonna remember you and they might even
search for you direct
yeah
so i mean this forgive me this is a
basic question sam i just want to get
something clear um
for people listening sure so i think
about seo i almost always instantly
think of websites and kind of longer
form content and doing it that way but
like how does that work with like
landing pages can landing pages still be
optimized for seo in the same way or
there's like a different strategy to
that
yeah so typically if we're going to help
a customer with an seo campaign we'd
always recommend a multi-page website
um rather than just a single page
landing pages are great don't get me
wrong
as a single page but typically i'd
recommend if you're going to do that
then drive ads or drive email traffic or
drive social traffic whatever it may be
if you want a successful seo campaign
you typically want a multi-page website
and reason being is google loves content
rich sites google loves content um pages
that's really helpful informative and
essentially gives people the the answers
they're looking for to their questions
um and more often than not just a single
landing page is usually focused on an
offer right and so it's got to take
someone from
convincing them that the it's going to
help their problem and then um giving
some some good social proof and then
call to action taking them to action
fill out the form whereas with a
multi-page website you can focus on a
bunch of different services you can make
sure you're giving people
let's say you're an insurance provider
and you're maybe looking for like best
life insurance product or something like
that if someone lands on your page they
want to make sure that you're really
answering their question you're saying
look this is why it's the best life
insurance offer perhaps you've got a
video on there perhaps there's an
infographic explaining your process
perhaps there's a podcast interview
there's all these useful resources so
you're kind of building trust with the
customer giving them a good user
experience making sure they don't bounce
off your page right away because you
didn't answer what they were looking for
and likewise you're telling google that
you're a reputable source um and that
the information you're putting out is
right so yeah typically multi-page sites
tend to work way better
so what's uh how easy is it though so
like the example you gave for life
insurance if i if you were a um let's
say an agency or a lead generator that
was building a landing page and you were
bidding on google running some facebook
traffic affiliates whatever and you
thought okay this is something we've
been doing for the last four years we
better build a site around it as well we
want to rank highly if someone
types in either life insurance it could
be a bit more specific like over 50s
life insurance or something um
i guess there's two questions one is
what do you think the time frame is and
how
easy or difficult is it to rank to the
top of that
it's not that easy yeah it's going to
happen
so as you
as you know the insurance sector is
saturated right yeah so every every man
in this dog wants to be page one for
some of those search terms um the nisha
you go so yeah like you said if you can
go like critical life cover or over 50s
insurance then that's going to help
um
but there's a few things to consider so
what one of the very first
parts of an seo plan seo process is to
nail down the search terms the keywords
that you actually want your website to
get found for
and when you're doing that you don't
necessarily want to look at you want to
think about different stages of the
sales funnel and so you want to think of
are you normally split into three
processes so kind of top of the funnel
where people aren't aware of what you do
maybe middle of the funnel where people
perhaps comparing you to another
provider and then bottom of the funnel
where people are just ready to get a
quote in legion case right away or to do
business with you so
if someone's searching something like
best life insurance company or best life
insurance provider they're probably
quite competitive terms that might take
i don't know 12 months or so to rank
depending on how saturated they are so
they're quite bottom of funnel people
ready to buy
um whether you're searching something
like i don't know aviva versus what's
another life insurance provider is it um
a line in general
yeah so if you're comparing the two
maybe you're in the middle of the funnel
because you know you want it but you
just want to compare a couple options
if you really are early in the funnel um
top of funny might be thinking why do i
need life insurance or why would i need
crisco illness cover um
so
your website your seo can capture people
at different stages of the funnel the
sales funnel why do you want to do that
um well the top of funnel stuff it tends
to be what's called a longer term
keyword because it's got more search
terms in the query so why do i need x or
things to consider before getting x
that means on your website when it comes
to creating the content you can create a
dedicated page or blog article related
to that that really helps people why
would you do that well they're seeing
your brand you're building trust when
the time comes that they do need your
help you'll probably be remembered
and they might sign up to your email
they might sign up to video list or
whatever um middle of funnel comparison
you're basically putting together
content again on your site whether
that's a blog a podcast a resource and
you're weighing up yourself against
another option or bottom of funnel which
tends to be the most competitive where
people are literally ready for the
product and you want to come up top and
which might yeah like i say depending on
how competitive the industry is in the
insurance sector could take 12 months
could take 18 months
um depending what's out there yeah this
is the thing right because lead gen um i
just did a post space yesterday the day
before um it drives so much awareness
that's never taken it into account right
because all the ads all the views so to
get someone to fill a landing page for
me um
let's say vehicle test drive for nissan
for example yeah um
you might have a million views of
whatever that product page is and that's
all but on paid media as well so you're
typically paying for every click and
everything that doesn't convert if it's
from a lead generation page so it's you
know like um
best
testdrives.com or something they've lost
all of the traffic unless they're doing
some sort of retargeting which you know
you
don't pick very much up for anyway but
if you're going to put that much budget
and that much effort behind it so then
not have like a fallback like you said
when that awareness is being struck and
someone then goes back a month later and
thinks that test drive out that i saw i
am thinking about switching that's when
you need the uh the website and the seo
to kick in
yeah yeah i completely agree exactly i
mean there's a stat a company called
lead forensics put out a while ago it's
probably changed a little bit since but
they used to say that 98 of your
visitors will never convert
um so that was how they sold their tools
so basically only two percent which is
around an infantry average it varies
from site to site so only around two
percent of people that come to your site
will ever convert into a lead or an
inquiry
so how are you capturing their attention
how are you keeping them engaged how are
you being a useful resource how are you
educating them helping them informing
them so when the time comes that they do
need your product you're top of mind
yeah um because exactly like you said
like not everyone's to inquire straight
away so if you can be a useful resource
to them through the content on your own
site
or constantly appearing on top of the
organic search then the chances are
they'll come back to you when they're
ready
it sort of reminds me of we're always
talking about like the difference in the
similarities between b to b but it's um
it's almost like all that paid media is
the awareness that's being driven by
either a brand or a vertical and then
it's when you need the non-paid organic
to actually be the intent channels like
the reverse almost um if only two
percent are converting on the actual
intent channel you're going for but i i
think the same about brands as well so
let's say i know um you are bulb energy
and we've grown and grown and grown
recently and so um you rank really
highly under your own brand and
everything else but if someone then
searches something like
a best energy comparison
yeah they'll virtually never be there
and they won't be bidding on it either
but a bunch of lead generators will be
bidding on it to try and capture these
to sell back to bull and then top
ranking would be just some um comparison
site or something yeah i always think
brands just don't take advantage of seo
either
yeah
a tricky tricky point there simon is on
those kind of terms as well
is that those kind of sites do do very
well so when you search like it's the
same in our sector right so if you
search like best energy comparison
or
compare web developers in myspace or
compare seo developers quite often the
page one is just of organic search is
just full of these directory sites right
that are geared up to legion and why do
they perform well they're so content
rich they've just got so many
information that's usually submitted by
the actual companies themselves so quite
often the owners of the directories
don't have to do a great deal of work
because all their content comes from the
vendors that are signed up to the site
which is interesting
um so literally in our case there's
there's one called in the web space
there's one called clutch there's
another one called good firms and
basically agencies pay to be on these
sites but they're aggregating content
from the agencies so they're getting
rankings on google purely by the content
of the companies that want to be listed
on their submit they even get the
companies to submit blog articles and
stuff like that um
so it's it's worked really well but yes
it's generally comparison sites tend to
be page one when you're searching
comparisons
um
but it's interesting so is that company
you've just mentioned are they kind of
spending quite a lot on paid ads but
they're not coming up on any organic
searches is that right or who's that
bulb yeah um now i think they probably
run some paid ads and they
probably do some like competitor or like
their own brand bidding um
but what happens it's sort of similar to
what you mentioned with comparison size
and this is what i'd like suggest that
lead generators start thinking
themselves like is um
lead generators will bid on key terms
which they then
capture leads on and sell them back to
the brands
that either could run it as an seo or
bid on those terms themselves and then
because the
brands aren't really focusing on legion
they're focusing on sales and building
the brand and then they're
outsourcing their marketing from the
legion level to lead generation is
coming back to them
yeah yeah yeah i'm like i say when i
used to be in an industry that was quite
the case it was always a hard game to
try and offer and try and sell seo to a
lot of b2c companies especially in the
insurance space that we dealt in quite a
lot because they were just so used to
right here right now and just paying for
leads they probably had a setup with a
few different lead generation companies
like you said or add great aggregators
where they could just know what was
coming in and know it was coming out and
that was that um but like you say why
not set up
a
site yourself which yes it's not going
to be quick but a year or so work then
the leads might start steadily coming in
um if you're in a competitive space and
most of these companies not all if
you're a startup then appreciate funds
are going to be tight and resources in
house might be tight so you might have
to start on a smaller scale
but a lot of companies like the ones
we've referenced so far have got big
marketing teams right
so why not get them to steadily work on
a website and start being putting
together content and kind of
understanding look these are the key
these are the products we want to be
selling
and these are the search terms we need
to get our go after let's agree on x
amount of search terms let's make sure
our website is going to be lightning
quick it's going to be a really useful
resource if anyone lands on it it's
going to have great blog articles great
videos great interviews and all the
information pages we're going to assess
our competitors and we're going to
one-up them on every information page we
have we're going to be more useful more
educational we're going to really guide
them to take action as well so we're
going to really at the end of each page
we have a clear call to action for them
to get a quote or request more details
or book a call and so that way kind of
we're setting ourselves up for the next
6 12 18 months we're going to get a
steady flow of leads from organic as
well as what we're already kind of
buying from lead generators anyway so
to me it's common sense but i sell it so
i mean feel free to ask deep dive into
any of the strategies if you want to
well i think um one of the things i was
going to say the reason it doesn't
happen i think is more like an internal
thing for the brands if you speak
talking about them specifically which is
the marketing team of a brand have their
own budget and their own um sort of
incentive and so they'll be building the
site building brand awareness and
everything else the stuff we're talking
about would be to generate leads it's
actually a budget given to the sales
team and what they're thinking about is
just generate leads quickly and that's
why all when effectively their marketing
gets outsourced and they just want leads
coming in
whereas if they work together a bit more
this is the sort of strategy they might
start thinking about
yeah and it is it is difficult because i
appreciate that you need x amount of
leads coming in to generate x revenue
per month
um
but yeah it does it is a it is a case of
kind of coming out your comfort zone and
just saying look how can we set our
business up for next year rather than
just what's coming in this year
um
and then yeah again looking at the brand
side of things looking at
making your website more of a useful
resource and looking at also thinking
about well we don't know what we don't
know so yes we're getting customers from
these channels right now we're buying
these leads in but what about this huge
chunk of
business that we know these lead
generation sites are doing for us what
if we can just get a small slice of the
pie
and
that's that's what you need to consider
really yeah
it's quite interesting when you think
about this sort of short short-term
transactional legion on one side and
then you're talking about a long-term
process and bramble and stuff like that
but then does the challenge for you um
like how how do you sort of track that
for example so if someone comes in and
they see something at the top of the
funnel and then you you make a brand so
you know in the mind like you're saying
and then like a year later they convert
is it difficult for you to still say to
clients like you know how you track that
journey and how you prove that return on
that
very much so so it's um just like
anything top of funnel unless they sign
up to some kind of lead magnet whether
that's your email list or something else
then there might be a way of turning
that back
um certainly with bottom of the funnel
that's that's all trackable so if you've
got a website and you've got google
analytics set up and you're measuring
each conversion point so if someone's
clicking to phone you or filling out a
lead form or
doing a chat bot or whatever they st
step they take to speak to your sales
team or generally then yeah of course
you can track all that and you can
attribute that to organic search but
yeah when it's more top of funnel when
it's more building brand yes it is
trickier to track um
i mean i suppose one way you can do it
is whenever they they come in on board
and speak to a sales rep you you measure
you ask them look how how did you find
us originally or what how did you
stumble upon us and you you met that
down in the crm but like i said earlier
not everything's trackable um
you need to think kind of longer term
this is going to build our brand
not everything we're going gonna be able
to attribute um a big chunk of the lower
stuff lower funnel stuff we will
but and that's the same for paid ads
right because not everyone that clicks
the paid ad is gonna convert right away
and it might be might be a mix so if you
are doing seo and ads then it's only
gonna complement the strategy by kind of
building that multi-channel approach and
making sure you're on the different
platforms in front of your customer
wherever they choose to kind of search
for you
so do you know what the
strategies to use for the top
yeah yeah this this could be an episode
in itself so um building
i mean i can i can quickly what i'll do
is i'll go through an seo strategy and
um in a fairly quick format and just
stop me at any stage
so initially
you just you just rumble on them
yeah yeah yeah
like we said earlier first you want to
do a you want to nail down the keywords
and you want to actually get your
website ranked for
organically on google and you don't want
to do anything you want to literally
think about um
what are the products what the services
we offer that we want to be found for
and if you've already got data from
google ads or similar then that's going
to be really useful because you know
what's working
um so if we swing it back to
let's say you offer some kind of
insurance product it doesn't matter swap
out the insurance word for whatever else
i say um
so
different search terms you could think
like
real bottom of funnel stuff might be
best life insurance provider or buy life
insurance now or get a life insurance
quote people are typing that right
they're probably gonna head on to your
page and click get
quote middle of funnel might be um
compare x to y
or um
yeah compare y to z or comparing
different products or they might
literally type in compare life insurance
or something like that and that might be
somewhere in the middle
right at the top might be why do i need
x why do i need insurance or what to
consider before doing this or how should
i go about doing this um
so making sure you've got search terms
for each one
and tools that you can use are things
like semrush ahrefs
um google keyword planner all of these
tools will give you data on how many
searches these terms get per month um
the search value what the comp what your
competitors are doing in the space so
you can kind of assess one assess ones
and then make a list of the ones you
want to crack on and go ahead for
once you've nailed down the search terms
you want to look at
there's two main elements to seo
everything on your website on-site seo
and everything off of your website
called offsite seo
so the key
first of all before you rush off and
start doing what's called building
backlinks and chucking out a load of
content on other websites is you need a
solid foundation on your website right
so you need to look at your website from
a technical perspective
and from a content perspective
so technically you need to consider
things like google recently rolled out
an update called cool web vitals
some elements to that include making
sure your website loads super fast
and there's a great tool that you can
use called google pagespeed insights um
and you can just put in your website url
and they'll tell you your your page
speed on mobile and desktop
ideally and they'll give you a score out
of 100 and if it's kind of under 90 or
so they'll give you um
actionable tips so it might say like
your images take too long to load or
something's wrong with your technical
like javascript or there's an issue with
your code and you can kind of bring that
to your web developer
so you want your mobile and desktop page
speed under one close to one second or
less than one second as possible
you also want what's called a mobile
first design on your site is now
typically about sixty percent of all
searches are made from mobile some
websites a bit less some website a bit
more having just what's called a
responsive design on your website is no
longer good enough um so that's
basically where your website adapts to
mobile it adapts to pc adapter tablet
that's okay but if you can go mobile
first
most people especially in the b2c sector
i imagine are flicking through their
phone at night time perhaps they've seen
your ad on facebook whatever as if your
advert if your site doesn't work well on
the mobile they're going to head to a
competitor that works better
so doing that making sure your site's
fast to load and then there's a bunch of
more technical things which won't bore
you with too much but making sure things
such as the meta titles meta
descriptions under each page are
relevant again to the search terms
you've picked out in at the start
so um your home page might be
best life insurance provider for your
life insurance company and your
description might be what a little
snapshot of kind of what you provide and
that's that's the listing that's shown
on google and when someone sees your ad
the
meta and description um and then doing
things like alt tags which are over
images so when people hover over images
they know what it means so look at all
those technical elements and how your
website's structured and then looking at
the content
so you don't want to jam every keyword
that you have to to your homepage
because it might not be relevant
especially if we're looking at more of
these top of funnel searches so what to
consider before getting life insurance
you might want to do a dedicated page on
this which again like we talked about
earlier is a useful resource so it kind
of gives everyone they need to weigh up
the pros and cons of it gives them some
useful content and gives them some maybe
a useful video a useful infographic
quick tip on
content is
if you get common questions from your
customers each and every week like how
do we do this or what's the best way to
do x or what should i consider before
doing x and if you're not sure what
these questions are you can ask your
sales reps you can literally say to your
sales team what is the most common
problem or objection that my customer
our customers come to us each and every
week without fail they'll probably give
you a list of five to ten objections
that you get from customers while they
don't buy create content on that put
that as a website blog post article
information page
why well you know there's demand for it
people are probably searching for it
because it's a common problem you get
each and every week um so yeah structure
your content accordingly make it
relevant to the search terms make it as
helpful as possible and do all those
checks in terms of speed so then you're
basically making sure that your website
has a solid foundation
once you've ticked off all those boxes
then you can start cracking on with
something called offsite seo
so this is things like creating articles
press releases
um
information um informative blogs
infographics animated videos and
building backlinks
why do you want to do that well on-site
will only get you so far if you're in a
really niche industry you might be okay
but most of the things we're talking
about insurance-based energy sectors
especially are very saturated
so
we need to
create backlinks
create content and distribute it so we
can help build up what's called our
website's domain authority
help send um links back to our site and
build up what's called link juice within
google and over time push our keywords
that we're going for organically up in
google's rankings
um
so yeah a bunch of ways you can do that
creating articles that are relevant that
include the keywords we're going after
and then distributing them on
relevant blogging sites putting them on
relevant press release sites building
links in directories classified ads and
all this good stuff that's relevant to
what you do in your industry
which your seo team can do or if you've
got a marketing team in house they can
set up this strategy in this plan
and then
you need to measure it all so everything
needs to be linked back to data so you
need to make sure you've got tools like
google analytics set up on your website
and you're tracking all your traffic
sources so you can attribute what's
coming as organic traffic what's coming
as paid so you're tracking all your
conversion points every time someone
clicks your phone number every time
someone fills out a form every time
someone does a chat bot sent at the end
of the month you can report all the
activities you've done so all the
on-site activities you've done all the
content you've created or the links
you've built and distributed and then
report on the results so measure
the ranking improvements so again you
can use kind of semrush or ahrefs to
give you these this data and you can say
look one of the search terms let's say
best energy provider we were unranked
now month one in we've gone from
unranked to page 50 month two we've gone
to 45
and then most importantly the
conversions so measuring look at this
we've had this many form fills this many
click to calls this many chat bots um
from organic results this month so it's
all kind of linked back to
leads and revenue
that is the process in a
snapshot uh yeah i don't know if i could
listen to the long version
that was brilliant though sam i think
that was a really good sort of uh
overall view into uh
sort of what it takes as well and also
why a lot of companies outsource it to
people like you it's because you need
that technical knowledge effectively
there's a lot to it exactly um
so that's why we've kind of got a
specialist team like you said i couldn't
do it all myself because you need people
to create the content you need
developers that know that the on-site
work and then you need people to know
how to build links so it's a varied
skill set
and
so yeah making sure you've got that do
you write all the content for your
clients as well and when they're doing
stuff like blogs and articles and things
like that
yeah good question because in a lot of
sectors you need industry specific
knowledge
so
the answer is sometimes we do sometimes
we don't for the larger companies
they'll have a marketing team and they
might help us out
medium-sized companies we might create
some blog articles and infographics and
design things some month and then they
might help us with half of it um whereas
for the smaller businesses we might do
the job we might do all of it um because
they they're too busy kind of running
the business of running sales so they
want us to look after the whole process
so it varies depending on the size of
the code usually yeah really
um well yeah thank you thank you that
was that was very uh very beneficial i
think people listen so i think people
really appreciate that um and like i say
i think as i mentioned before we start i
have like a rough idea of things to talk
about roughly and i won't go in there
saying can you give us some actionable
tips to uh help but you've just done
that in spades so i think i'll move past
that one and because that was really
really useful when i say actionable
stuff which is really good um but just
to sort of wrap things up i was just
going to say um you mentioned the
podcast but if people are listening to
this and think yeah i want to learn more
about this or listen to the pod or we'll
work with you in some way what are the
best ways for people to find you yeah i
appreciate that so by all means check me
out on linkedin at sam dunning i share
actual kind of seo and web tips each and
every day
um check out the podcast it's business
growth show again you can steal a bunch
of tips yourself uh it's on youtube and
all the podcast channels but otherwise
if you've listened to me ramble on for
the last 30 or so minutes and you
thought yeah i'm feeling a bit
frustrated because my website isn't
converting all these visitors i'm paying
so much in ads or marketing and they're
not converting to leads
or perhaps you you keep searching on
google for the products you offer or the
services you offer and you keep seeing
your competition ahead of you and you
want a slice of that pie then i'd love
to chat to you it's webchoiceuk.com
cool i think one of the things that um
is really interesting is the the
similarity we've got because we talk
about a lot about how brands should
become lead generators and lead
generators should become brands
and i think your sort of
offering is fits really sort of well
into that so you know removing this paid
media
stance alone from the lead generators
and start thinking about and i think the
reason why it's so important to actually
start building a brand is the sort of
data
world that we're now moving into and
have moved into already where people you
know want more control we want to know
who's got their data what the benefits
are
this sort of one-hit wonder of just
generating a lead and then selling it
with little sort of um
concept to the longer term view of uh
your relationship with leads or the
prospects or anything else
and so for me i think it's the perfect
way to do that and start thinking about
it is you know and it provides real
commitment if you are a lead generator
as well thinking about actually building
a site in the verticals that you operate
in is going to make you rank highly
because it sort of also like puts some
responsibility on you as well right so
you can't just bang an ad up and start
thinking i'm just going to drive leads
it's like okay you're actually going to
like you know list your benefits and
highlight the reasons why people should
work with you or
people become leads for you so that you
know what is it what is the service that
you're actually providing rather than
just generating a lead
yeah exactly and although i've rambled
on about seo for the last god knows how
long um
i'm very much of the mindset of having a
multi-channel marketing approach
so just like you said the the problem
with marketing or advertising is that
any one time
advertising can take a hit
so an example i often give is look i get
as our business web choice we tend to
get most of our business than three main
sources and that is seo organic seo for
our for our own leads
and likewise we do the same for our
customers and then after that it's paid
ads so we do paid ads and sponsored ads
on a few different channels and then
thirdly is linkedin and that's just the
own the content i put out each day and
we get quite a lot of inbound
opportunities from that so that's our
three top channels and there's a few few
after that of course
but if one of those channels takes a hit
i know that i've got seo i've got paid
ads let's say linkedin
changed tomorrow and linkedin went pay
to play
i know that i've got paid ads seo i run
the podcast we put out a bunch of
content i run a youtube channel and all
those channels are still going to feed
leads to me
whereas if you put all of your eggs in
one marketing basket like paid ads or
whatever it is if that crashes down
tomorrow what you're gonna do if you've
got seo and you've got all this
evergreen content that's on the internet
it's not going anywhere you know that
that's probably gonna be okay for a
while and over time that's gonna feed
you some leads so it's having that
mindset of not everything has to be
under one channel
it must be a tough gig uh ranking
organically for seo on
google because every seo company must be
trying to out compete the other oh god
yeah um yeah seo and web development so
one of our terms at the moment is web
development company that we're page one
for but there's literally a hundred
thousand or so web agencies in the uk
so it's it's quite a game a bit like
life insurance really i suppose in terms
of competitiveness
cool well thanks that was an absolutely
brilliant example i'm sure the listeners
have taken a lot from this um
and we'll uh we'll see whose podcast
ranks most highly in finland
and the marketing we were number five
i need to check it yeah yeah i haven't
checked this stuff we're number five for
a day and then it just dropped there was
that one
you might have jumped even more after
this episode
now down to 45.
i'll take it
thanks so much sam yeah thanks so much
cheers guys enjoyed it take care